Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain an episode from an American adult
animated anthology “Love, Death
& Robots” called “Ice Age”.
A young couple has just moved into their brand
new apartment. The husband named Rob brings
boxes of their belongings into the house while
his wife Gail places utensils in the kitchen.
Gail is bothered by an old fridge that
the landlord had kept in the apartment.
They can not get rid of it, but
it looks hideous in the kitchen.
Rob tries to be optimistic and tells her that old
fridges have technology that the new ones don’t,
like the massive motor it has on top of it.
Gail sarcastically says that it is insane,
making fun of her husband's geekiness. Tired
after carrying all the boxes, she suggests
they drink some wine. Rob opens the old fridge to
see if it has some ice. To his surprise, he sees
thick chunks of ice cover the freezer. He gets a
cube and puts it in his drink. They sit down and
make a toast to their new house. After taking a
sip, Rob notices a strange structure in the ice.
When Rob realizes what it is, he doesn’t seem
to believe his eyes. He hands the cube to Gail,
asking her to confirm there’s something
in it. She brings out a magnifying glass,
and the two look into it to see a tiny mammoth
frozen inside the cube. The two are confused
and surprised. They notice that the tiny creature
was hunted because it has spears on its side.
A confused Gail goes back to the freezer
and removes pieces of ice to finally reveal
a tiny working medieval civilization. The time
inside the freezer seems to be passing by faster
as the people go about their normal day in
seconds. The couple is fascinated and baffled as
to how this can be possible. The people inside do
not seem to care about large giants watching them.
Sometime later, Rob buries the mammoth’s tiny body
under their house plant. Gail makes fun of him and
opens the freezer again to see that the medieval
time has changed to the industrial revolution.
While they were away for a few minutes, decades
have gone by in the freezer. They watch people
build tall buildings and houses in seconds. Rob
is sad because he missed the Renaissance period
and wonders if the people inside the freezer think
they are gods. Just then, two construction workers
from inside the freezer complain about
the two idiots who watch them every day,
saying that they’re tired of looking at broccoli
on Gail’s teeth. In no time, the industrial era
changes into the modern era, and massive
skyscrapers are made. Tiny objects fly over
the buildings, which Rob is confused about, but
Gail suggests that they might be airplanes.
The couple watches in fascination as the
time changes to the present. Rob laughs
looking at a Starbucks building, trying to relate
to the tiny world. He moves closer to get a better
look when suddenly, a massive bright missile
launches on the tiny city. A startled Rob falls
back to the kitchen floor as Gail tries to help
him. The people inside the freezer are at a war,
and everything seems to be destroyed. The couple
gets a look at humanity’s harsh future but doesn’t
seem to care. Gail closes the refrigerator
claiming that the people cannot outgrow a war
in a few minutes, so they should come back
later. The two order a pizza and enjoy it,
completely ignoring the nuclear war happening
inside their freezer. About an hour later,
Rob suggests they check what is going on inside.
The couple seems to be afraid to open the freezer,
fearing they would look at the extinction of
humans. However, they are met with a pleasant
surprise when they finally open it. The war
has ended, and mankind has recovered from it.
They even notice flying cars and compare the
tiny futuristic place to the emerald city.
Humans are more advanced than ever before.
The futuristic world has several skyscrapers
connected with bridges in the beginning, but then,
a singular pyramid like structure takes over.
They assume that everyone lives inside
the pyramid now. When the pyramid unfolds,
it reveals a diamond-shaped structure inside.
The structure absorbs the whole city, and Soon,
a sphere of energy forms in the middle. It finally
bursts, sending sparks of energy flying into the
couple’s kitchen. They watch in fascination as the
sparks jump around the room like fireflies. They
believe that humans have unfolded every secret of
the universe and are now traveling around space
that is beyond their expectations. Then, the
sparks of light converge into the sphere again
and transfer into the freezer, which the couple
assumes is their true home. At last, the sphere
disappears, presumably indicating the end of
the world. The couple watches the empty freezer
in confusion. Rob wonders if they are coming
back, but Gail claims that it is unlikely.
Rob finally unplugs the refrigerator, and the
couple hug, having witnessed the past, present,
and future of humanity in the past few hours. It
is now the following morning. The two wake up and
continue with their morning routine. However, the
thought of last evening hasn’t left their minds.
They decide to open the freezer for the
last time to check if everything is really
over. To their utmost surprise, the era of
dinosaurs has returned. Several tiny apes eat
the flesh from a dead dinosaur. They run away as
another dinosaur attacks them. The episode ends
as the couple continues to watch the tiny
creatures in their natural habitat.
This episode of love death and
robots is particularly famous
for the interesting concept of the whole creation,
evolution, and the end of mankind being shown in
minuscule measurements. The concept of both time
and dimension is challenged by a magical freezer.
It is only right to call the freezer a natural
phenomenon because how it came into existence
is never explained in the short movie. Some fans
of the show believe that the fridge belonged to
the previous owners who were tired of watching the
fate of humanity repeatedly, so they left it in
the house before moving.
The film also provides us hope for the future
because the world inside the freezer
recovered from the most devastating war
mankind had ever seen. However, by watching
Rob and Gail order pizza and enjoy it while
the little world was at war, we come
across the negligence of the people and
their non-existent sense of responsibility
towards the problems of the world.
In this short film, we can witness a possible
future of humanity that doesn’t end in its
extinction. Unlike the usual devastating
endings that most of the movies predict,
“Ice Age” shows us the possibility of humans
figuring out the universe and becoming one
with it. The ball of energy formed in the pyramid
like tower is most likely a technology that allows
them to escape reality. After finding
out every secret about our existence,
the ball of energy disappeared into thin air,
indicating that humans changed dimensions
and have turned into a higher being.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave
a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.